It's well known around these parts that I'm a pretty big fan of Denard Span; a big part of that, I think, is how interesting he is as a person and also as a case study of a baseball player's career.

He was a first-round draft pick, and the Twins immediately had hopes that he'd one day replace Torii Hunter in the franchise's lineage of fan-friendly star center fielders. In his first several years in the minors, however, Denard was a complete disappointment; he couldn't hit at all, leading to my use of the unflattering nickname "Denard F'ing Span" in place of his actual name. I've always wondered _why_ he failed so miserably for so long, and then suddenly started drawing walks and driving the ball in the upper minors. I had theorized for a while that it had to do with his eye surgery, which happened around the same time. Maybe, though, that wasn't the entire story.

Rob Neyer quotes [some words from Denard himself](http://espn.go.com/blog/sweetspot/post/_/id/3555/twins-span-recalls-class-a-days):

> When I got drafted, anybody who scouted me will remember that I was a small-framed guy, but I had pretty good pop, so to speak. I wasn’t a slap hitter coming out of high school; I was a guy who could drive the ball into the gaps. I wasn’t a home-run hitter, but I was a guy who could drive the ball. When I got drafted, they took me with the idea of making me into a leadoff hitter and they wanted me to slap the ball. That had them changing my hitting approach to try to stay inside the ball and hit ground balls to the left side of the infield instead of turning on balls. I did that for two-and-half, three years, and it almost got to the point where I didn’t know how to turn on a ball. On an inside pitch, I’d try to fight it the other way. 

> Finally, I got to Double-A and a scout who had seen me in high school, and had been promoted to a position in our minor-league system, remembered seeing me as a 17-year-old kid. At that age, I was probably 25 pounds lighter than I was at 22. So, when he saw me at 22 he said, "I remember when you were 170 pounds and now you’re close to 200 pounds and you hit the ball farther, with more strength, as a 17-year-old. That doesn‘t make sense to me." After that, they had me, finally, working on turning on the ball and driving it. I almost felt like I ... I don’t want to say "wasted" three years, but I was working on something for three years that I don’t think I should have been. 

So the Twins took a lean, strong 17 year old center fielder with a little bit of pop, and set out to systematically destroy his ability to hit the ball with any authority. They went with the standard organizational mold of the slap-hitting little guy who never draws a walk or gets an extra base hit. The .300/.300/.300 "perfect Twin" that the team seemed to value so highly during the down years ... and hasn't quite gotten over now that they actually have _talented_ players.

That's pretty disappointing. And they _never would have fixed it_ if the guy who'd scouted him hadn't been promoted to a position of power. How many other talented young players are the Twins destroying before they get to AA because they're teaching their own preferred style of hitting over either a) what's valuable to a team, or b) what each individual player would be best at. You remember David Ortiz, right? Well, the Twins wanted him to bunt and to slap the ball the other way, and he was frustrated. When he went to Boston, they apparently told him to "hit the ball as hard as you can,"* and he reacted brilliantly.

_* There may or may not have been other changes that Ortiz made when he went to Boston._

[John Shipley recently interviewed Bill Smith about Span](http://www.twincities.com/sports/ci_15059245?nclick_check=1), his play on the field, and his new contract. Was Smith even aware of this close call, the fact that Span's career was saved by an unknown front-office staffer, pulled back from the brink of Tolbert-ian offense and thrust forth into the star-caliber realm of 4 WAR players?

> "We drafted him out of high school, and he already had a maturity and a work ethic. He came to us with a lot of it," Twins general manager Bill Smith said. "He was a quiet, serious guy when we took him. He progressed step by step through our system, and there were a lot of people — managers, coaches, trainers -- who were very happy when he became a good major league player."

That ... does not seem like Smith is aware of what happened. I always like it when GMs and managers and other "baseball people" talk about a player's "work ethic" as if it's more important than his talent; as if they'd rather have a guy who _tries really hard_ than a guy who _is awesome_. You'd think they'd rather have Nick Punto _and_ Matt Tolbert on the same 25-man roster than upgrade one of them to a player with more talent. He even mentions that Span "progressed step by step through our system," as if the Twins' "system" is designed to do anything more than produce no-discipline/no-power players. The gems like Mauer, Morneau, Cuddyer, and Kubel managed to sneak through the Twins' "system" by what seems to amount to nothing more than a series of accidents -- leaving me to wonder if any of them have a story like Span's to tell about their days in the minors.

Shipley points out that Gardenhire praised Span for seeming "more focused on driving the ball," as proven by a triple he hit to the gap last week. That seems like a bit of a small sample size, frankly, given that it's _one plate appearance_, but I hope that Span hasn't been loafing through the season so far -- and, perhaps more importantly, that Gardy doesn't _think_ Span hasn't been focused. But what did Span have to say about his newfound focus?

> "Every day, I'm trying to drive the ball. It doesn't work like that. One thing about being in the big leagues, you have access to a lot of video, and every day I come to the field, if something doesn't feel right, I try to go back to looking at some film of when I was feeling good, and I've been doing that."

So it takes a 26 year old player to throw some water on Gardy's face, pointing out that he's trying to drive the ball every time he swings,* and showing some understanding of how baseball works. I would have thought Gardy would understand this, given that he's "a baseball man," and has been around the game, and he batted .232/.277/.292 in his own playing career -- he failed more than anyone! Shouldn't he realize, by now, that _baseball is a game of failure_? Does he really need a young player like Span to understand this for him, on his own? Wouldn't it maybe be better if he could try to impart pieces of wisdom like this onto his young players, such that they might be able to convert some of their potential into actual success?

_* Weird, right? I mean, I thought players were supposed to go up there and flail wildly 70% of the time, so they didn't risk batting above .300?_

Of course, Gardy's a real sunflower-seed-spittin' baseball man. So instead of trying to mentor a guy like Alexi Casilla, emphasizing that failure is acceptable as long as you don't get discouraged and keep on going out there and getting better every day, he would rather throw Casilla under the bus whenever he accidentally sleeps too late and bench him for a week every time he either a) makes a mistake, or b) gets on base.

I suppose I shouldn't be surprised, then, that Gardy doesn't realize that Span is a good player who is always trying. Rather, when Span is doing well Gardy and Smith praise such vague attributes as his "focus" and "work ethic," and when he isn't doing well they pan those very same vague attributes; what do you think Gardy meant by "more focused" if not that Span _hadn't been focused_ until he hit that triple?

The Twins are known for doing things the right way -- especially when it comes to the farm system. They have a constant pipeline of talent coming out of the minors, replenishing the major league club as needed. It's really the only way to stay competitive when you can't compete financially with the top teams.

But imagine how much better the team could be if they weren't actively trying to prevent their prospects from developing into good players.
