Baseball is a funny game. Before yesterday's game, I'd written an article about Delmon Young; the premise was that he'd been given the starting job in LF, and it was his even if he had a bad night at the plate. He'd said that it felt good to know that even if he went 0-4, he'd be in the lineup the next night; that helps you relax, and perform better. It's the same thing Cuddyer said during his breakout season in 2006, when he was given RF. I'd written about the fact that as soon as Delmon suffered his first 0-4, Gardy was quick to bench him, and that I didn't like it; I hoped that Gardy had explained to Delmon that it wasn't a _benching_ as much as just trying to get Thome more plate appearances and getting Delmon some rest. Even in the article, I worried that I was overreacting.

Thankfully, I didn't post the article. Because when they actually played the game, everything worked out perfectly, as if it were exactly what Gardy had had in mind when he sat Delmon out.

The Twins offense looked pretty impotent until the 5th inning, when a Thome double and a Kubel single started a rally (which ended with a Harris homer). Later, Thome blasted a 3-run homer to widen the margin to 6-1 and effectively put the game away. Delmon came in as _a defensive replacement_* and then, get this, in his only plate appearance he hit a 3-run homer of his own.

_* I wonder how many times this year Delmon will come in as a defensive replacement. Isn't it odd that the Twins apparently plan to use 2009's worst defensive outfielder as a regular late-inning defensive sub? On one hand, if your defensive replacements come in and jack home runs in the ninth inning, you're doing something right. On the other, it seems to mean you're a little short on talented defenders. I think it's worth paying attention to this year._

So, in the end, I'm glad I didn't post that article before the game started. I'd have looked quite the fool.

And the Twins won 10-1, bludgeoning the Angels into submission with three more home runs. The offense is performing tremendously, despite the fact that they're getting essentially zero production from the top two spots in the lineup. Twins fans have been able to say that before, of course, but this time there's a big, big difference: we can reasonably expect that Span and Hudson will start hitting better at some point. Probably soon. And that makes it more likely that the team will continue its torrid run-scoring pace even if this crazy home run pace slows down. (And if it doesn't slow down, oh boy, the Twins are going to score a lot of runs.)

The Twins are 3-1 now, and have won a series in Anaheim for the first time in what seems like ages. The starting pitching has been a pleasant surprise, the offense has lived up to expectations, and the bullpen has shown some resilience to losing Nathan.

But all those things are meaningless, because there's another game starting tonight, and what they've done so far has no effect on what they'll do next. Baseball is a funny game that way.
