I haven't been writing much since the beginning of the season -- and I think the reason might be that the season is unfolding exactly as I thought/hoped it would. Liriano is re-emerging as an ace cast from the same mold we saw in 2006, the offense is relentless and dangerous from top to bottom, the pitching staff is more than accurate; the Twins are bludgeoning teams left and right. In fact, given that they've now won five consecutive series to start the year -- something they've never done before -- I'm going to have to say that the season has started off even better than I had thought it would.

I could say something now about the lack of "clutch hitting" -- the fact that they keep loading the bases and failing to drive in the runs. But that's not for today.

Today, I want to talk about Liriano. In 3 starts, he has a 1.29 ERA, 1.095 WHIP, and 17 strikeouts. His two outings at Target Field have been even more dominant: 0 runs in 15 innings, with tons of strikeouts and ground balls. This is exactly what he did during 2006, when he was essentially the perfect pitcher.

Liriano was my preseason pick for the Cy Young, and it feels good that he's started the season so dominant -- it's nice that the ridicule for such an audacious pick will be postponed until later in the season, when it's not quite so fresh in your minds.

It's already getting tough to remember, but during Spring Training there was a push for Liriano to be moved to the bullpen, to replace Nathan as the closer. [Reusse points out how well it's worked out](http://www.startribune.com/sports/twins/91778119.html?elr=KArksi8cyaiUo8cyaiUiD3aPc:_Yyc:aULPQL7PQLanchO7DiUr) that Liriano refused. At the time I thought the move would have been unwise, given how much potential value Liriano still has as a starter -- I figured that they needed to give Liriano a shot in the rotation to see if it could work, and if he continued to dominate for three innings before falling apart then, yes, you move him to the bullpen. It was what I thought was necessary last summer.

In Wednesday's game, Liriano found some trouble in the 5th and the Indians loaded the bases with one out. Last year, that would have been the disaster inning, the one that turned the game into a rout and put a heavy burden on the bullpen. Not this time. Rick Anderson:

> "Frankie started rushing a little that inning, and Joe [Mauer] went out and said, 'We're going to throw fastballs,' and he threw that sinker [to Asdrubal Cabrera] and got the double play. That was great to see. That was pitching."

Normally when you hear about the difference between a "thrower" and a "pitcher," the main difference is that the "thrower" goes in with an attitude like "we're going to throw fastballs." But really, I'm beginning to think the definition might just be _ex post facto_, in that he's a "pitcher" if what he did _worked_, and a "thrower" if it didn't, regardless of his approach.

If anyone still thinks the Twins would be better served with Liriano in the bullpen, I'd like to hear why.

**Bonus Nonsense!**

And I know I've harped on this in the past, but since I'm the only person who's on the "high contact pitchers can effect the quality of the defense behind them" bandwagon, [I guess I'll just have to keep on harping](http://www.twincities.com/sports/ci_14932457?nclick_check=1).

> "I tell you what, the last two days I feel like I haven't even moved in the outfield," Span said. "I've gotten lazy out there. I'll take that any day of the week. It starts with our pitching; we'll go as far as they go."

According to Span, all these strikeouts and groundouts are having a negative effect on his ability to keep his head in the game; of course, I'd never suggest that a pitcher should _try_ to decrease his strikeouts or increase his number of fly balls, it's at least worth paying attention to. As the pitching staff pitches _better_, the plays the defense makes behind them may get _worse_.

And it won't matter as long as the starters remain dominant and the offense remains a relentless run-scoring machine.
