Kyle Gibson, the Twins' 2009 first round draft choice, has so far exceeded even the expectations set by being considered a top-10 pick and by the well-above-slot signing bonus the Twins gave him after he slipped to them at the 22nd pick.

He debuted in A+ ball down in Fort Myers, and dominated: 7 starts, 4-1, 1.87 ERA, 40/12 K/BB, keeping the ball on the ground. After earning a promotion to AA, he's been even better: 3 starts, 3-0, 0.84 ERA, 20/2 K/BB, 0.797 WHIP. If it weren't for some other hot-shot pitcher raping the minor leagues this year, people might be taking notice of the fact that Gibson seems far too good for the hitters he's faced so far this year. Indeed, Twins fans have become excited, lately, that Gibson may be able to move quickly through the system just as Liriano, Garza, Slowey, and others have done in the past.

The Twins must be paying attention to the fans' attitude, because they've come out to [tamp down expectations that we'd see Gibson this year](http://www.startribune.com/sports/twins/95194949.html?elr=KArksi8cyaiUqCP:iUiacyKUUs).

> "The plan was for him, I think, to be in Fort Myers all year and get in 150 innings and get shut down, the first year coming off that thing," Gardenhire said. "They had to move him because pitching was really thin throughout the system."

Pitching is thin throughout the system, all of a sudden? Anyhow, how would Gardy know? When someone asked him recently about Danny Valencia, he responded "Danny who?" Like Ron Gardenhire knows anything at all about the state of the Twins' farm system. Sounds like a ruse to me.

Unless, of course, you take it to mean "They had to move him because pitching of this caliber is really thin throughout the system," because that'd be true. But then you "had to move him" because he's the best pitching prospect you've got. Not through some fault of the other guys. Whatever.

The original strategy to limit his innings makes some sense given Gibson's injury history -- the reason he fell to the Twins in the first place was that he'd broken his forearm during his senior season in college. It's supposed to be an injury that won't effect his pitching career, but it's still a good idea to stay cautious and go slowly with him.

It's not like the Twins are really strapped for pitching right now, anyway; their team ERA of 3.74 is 3rd best in the league, and nobody in the rotation is making a case to be replaced.

> "I'm happy for them, but I also know our organization," Gardenhire said. "You people think fast track to the big leagues, and some of our fans watch these things and think fast track. That's not how we do things. We develop and give them plenty of time."

That's really all there is to it, I think. Barring some seriously unexpected event later on, we shouldn't expect to see Kyle Gibson in Minnesota in 2010. And there's nothing wrong with that.
