The Twins are obviously scrambling for ideas in the wake of Nathan's injury, desperate to find a guy they can call their "closer" in 2010. One of those ideas, apparently, is to [move Carlos Gutierrez back from the rotation to the bullpen](http://www.startribune.com/sports/twins/87291382.html?elr=KArksi8cyaiUqCP:iUiacyKUUs).

> "This might change our thinking," said Jim Rantz, the Twins director of minor leagues. "For now, he's a starter. We might have to revisit that."

Gutierrez was drafted in the first round, and was a closer in college; however, the main reason he was a closer in college was because he had had Tommy John surgery and they were limiting his innings. I think it's likely that the Twins wouldn't have drafted him so high if they thought he was just a reliever.

So it made perfect sense to make him a starter and see if he could stick; he has a worm-killing sinker, but needs to develop a secondary pitch (or two) to really have a legitimate shot. He shouldn't have been on the Major League radar for this season; 2011 at the earliest.

But now, the Twins are letting their trepidations about 2010 interfere with their plans for the future. That's a serious problem.

It was more than possible that Gutierrez eventually returned to the bullpen -- in fact, it was likely. One possible reason they have him starting in the first place is just to let him face more batters. But it's important to let a player's _performance_ dictate whether his role changes, especially at this stage in his development.

The Mets make mistakes like rushing their prospects -- and it wrecked Gomez and Guerra before we ever got our hands on them. **The Twins should avoid those same mistakes.** I mean, if there's one thing we can all agree on, it's that the Twins should not try to emulate the Mets.

I'm probably overreacting to this news. But I think about trends a lot -- I've been encouraged by the trend that the Twins seem to be targeting high-upside talent more than they had in the past -- and this seems like something we should keep an eye on.
