Wilson Ramos is batting .778/.778/1.111.

I think this is basically what Indians fans and White Sox fans are talking about when they say they hate the Twins. I've been over it a few times, the frustration vented from these other fanbases when they see some key injuries to their own teams scuttle their hopes and dreams for the season ... meanwhile, they see key injuries to the Twins and it doesn't seem to have any effect.

When Joe Mauer was out last April, Jose Morales came up and posted a 1.000 OPS until Mauer could return; Mauer turned out to be even better than that once he came back, but the Twins didn't miss him much in April.

When Justin Morneau went down last September, Cuddyer just moved from RF to 1B and gave his best Morneau impression, smashing the ball all over the field.

When Joe Nathan went down some people pretended to be _really worried_ about how the Twins could ever win a game again. Turns out the internet was pretty much right about closers, and Rauch has 7 saves as Nathan's stand-in.

Now Mauer has gone down again, and Wilson Ramos got the call and has 7 hits in his first 9 at bats. He's batting **.778/.778/1.111**, and the Twins have won easily in both of his games.

I imagine it's frustrating to watch your rival repeatedly lose its stars, but _never_ miss them when they're gone. It's like when you're watching a game, and when the other team is batting the ball seems to keep landing right on the foul line and you find yourself cursing your television, asking the universe why _your_ team isn't getting those breaks. Except in this case, the questions are more existential and even more futile.

So, is Ramos turning Mauer into a 21st-century Pipp? I seriously doubt it.

For one thing, Mauer's new contract brings a _lot_ of certainty to the situation. The Twins have him, they have to pay him, they can't trade him, and he's consistently been one of the best players in the league for the past few years. He's like Wally Pipp, except if Pipp happened to be able to hit even better than Gehrig.

Secondly, the Twins have a lot of options regarding what to do with Ramos (whereas they really only have one option with Mauer: when he's healthy, he plays). They can make him an uber-backup; they can make him a C/DH platoon with Mauer; they can try to move him to another position; they can send him to AAA to waste his talents while he gets ever more frustrated and eventually is taken by someone in the Rule 5 draft; they can hang onto him while his value is high and then dump him for a pittance once his value craters as he ages or struggles; they can trade him this summer for a rental; they can trade him next winter for whatever's available.

A while back, the Twins never would have had these options. A little while less back, they would have chosen option four and just let him waste away in the minors until they'd completely thrown away one of their top prospects, then blamed the player for their own failure. But now? Now the Twins are a powerhouse economically, and one of their top prospects happens to be at a position where they have the reigning MVP signed for most of the decade.

For the first time in memory, the Twins are set to be buyers at the trade deadline _and_ have perhaps the most attractive trading chip on the market. It doesn't take a huge stretch of the imagination to see a Cliff Lee deal (or something like it) coming the Twins' way this summer.

Normally, I'd be afraid of that. I don't like short-sighted moves that value the present _way_ more than the future (which is precisely what trading 6 years of Ramos for 2 months of Lee would be). But now? Bill Smith is on a roll, and the early returns on his last several moves are excellent. So I'm left excited by the possibility that the Twins could make a giant splash with a Ramos trade some time within the next year.

I don't know what the Twins _should_ do with Ramos. Maybe something will happen during the year that shows a weakness that needs to be bolstered, which would help answer the question.

For now, I'll enjoy watching Ramos play. And for later, I find myself getting dangerously close to trusting that Bill Smith will make a good move -- whatever the move happens to be. What to do with Ramos is the next big test for the Twins' front office.
