Joe Sheehan of Baseball Prospectus [laments the fact that the Twins and Tigers exist and that he's forced to watch them](http://www.baseballprospectus.com/article.php?articleid=9613):

> Not to put too fine a point on this, but these aren't good baseball teams. One of them is going to get into the tournament, and once there they'll have no worse than the six- or seven-percent chance that is the floor for any team in this format, but I'm hard-pressed to remember two postseason candidates worse than this. I'd take any of the teams that stumbled into the tournament, or even the barely-over-.500 Padres, over the current versions of the Tigers and Twins. The drama has been nice, but it's entirely an example of the tallest-midget situation you will occasionally get when you carve 30 teams into six sub-groups. Were it not for the unbalanced schedule and interleague play, there's an excellent chance we'd be looking at a sub-.500 team in the postseason.

I hereby regret to inform Mr Sheehan that there are, in fact, baseball teams that are not the Yankees or Red Sox, and that they do, in fact, play baseball games.

I wholeheartedly apologize to Mr Sheehan that due to his position as a putative baseball expert, he will be _physically forced_ to watch a baseball game between two teams about whom he gives no shit.

It's okay, though, Joe. It's only one game. Then you can go ahead and write your article about how the Yankees have a 98% chance of beating whichever of these "baseball teams" manages to "win" the "game" on Tuesday, and then another article bemoaning the fact that the Yankees are obligated to waste their time beating up on an inferior opponent, when they should be spending their time beating up on _some other_ inferior opponent that doesn't insult your sensibilities. And plays on a coast.

Every time I actually go check my BP feed, it's filled with nothing but this kind of crap. It's a big reason I go there less frequently than once per month these days.

Basically, if they want me to renew my subscription next spring, their going to have to bring the quality of their content back up. They can start by getting some writers that don't hate baseball outside their own narrow comfor zone.
