Aaron Gleeman had a chance to interview John Manuel, a _Baseball America_ editor, [about Twins prospect Anthony Slama](http://aarongleeman.com/2010/06/02/qa-baseball-america-editor-john-manuel-on-anthony-slama/). Manuel points out that Slama's not on the 40-man roster, and that the Twins haven't called added him to it because there are other guys they want to see first, like Alex Burnett, Anthony Swarzak, Glen Perkins, Loek Van Mil, Deolis Guerra, and Estarlin del los Santos.

He goes so far as to say he doesn't "see a lot of dead weight on the 40-man roster," ie, there's no obvious person for the Twins to discard in order to add Slama. I have this feeling that many Twins fans would disagree with him about the amount of dead weight on the roster, but I'm not going to go there today.

> Is Slama so much better than what they have in the majors that he's worth losing a player to another organization by removing him off the 40-man? I think they consider that answer to be no, and I can see that. Stuff-wise, Slama isn't better than what they have. He's just better in terms of his minor-league dominance, which has gone on for three years.

Once again, I see this as a sort of litmus test of your baseball fandom -- ie, what you think of Anthony Slama says more about _you_ than it says about Slama himself.

If you think the Twins should _definitely_ call him up because of his absurd strikeout numbers in the minors, that seems a valid opinion. If you think the Twins are right in being conservative with him because his raw stuff isn't spectacular and, from looking at him, you wouldn't think he'd be able to dominate hitters, well, that seems like a valid opinion too.

Personally, I don't think you can dominate the minor leagues like this over a period of multiple years without having enough talent to succeed in the minor leagues -- however you're doing it. And I think it's likely that Slama is a better reliever than a few guys on the roster; Crain, for one.

But given Slama's status off the 40-man roster, and all those guys Manuel mentioned that the Twins want to check out before they promote Slama, it seems unlikely that we'll see him in the majors before 2011. The Twins obviously think it's worth more to the team to evaluate all these other options rather than risk losing the wrong one to promote a guy too early -- especially a guy they don't see as clearly worth the risk.

As much as I'd like to see Slama and his mustache that is, allegedly, an "80 porn stache on the 20-80 scale," I can't fault the Twins for what they're doing here. I also don't want to risk losing the wrong guy to waivers before knowing which guy _certainly_ isn't going to be the wrong guy.

So, where do you stand on Slama?
