The way the Twins are playing is getting more and more frustrating; the fanbase is inching closer and closer to a Twitter riot with every rally that dies just before a runner crosses the plate. It's beginning to look like the steady stream of baserunners may dry up before they finally start getting converted into a much-more-valuable steady stream of runs.

Meanwhile, the Twins' players have been complaining loudly about just _how insanely hard_ it is to hit a home run at Target Field. [The whining](http://www.startribune.com/sports/twins/94890339.html?elr=KArks:DCiU1PciUiD3aPc:_Yyc:aUU) at least _seems_ born out by reality -- Morneau and Cuddyer especially have repeatedly put a ball onto a path that sure seems like it's going into orbit, only to have the ball plummet to earth on the warning track. Just yesterday, JJ Hardy and Joe Mauer suffered the same fate, with well-struck fly balls finding a glove on the warning track in left-center.

> "Yeah," [Morneau] said. "I mean, we're a team with a lot of experienced, quality hitters, and you want to be able to feel like we can hit that big three-run homer when we need it. This team is built around that.

> "The one that got me, against the White Sox, that ball I hit off Joe Thornton ... the guy is throwing 97, I square it up, I feel like the ball should leave, I feel like it should be a 5-4 game after that, and then if we can get one on in the ninth we can tie it up.

> "Instead, that ball gets caught, we're down 5-2 going into the ninth and we have to score three off their closer. This team is built more for the three-run homer than for hitting balls into the gap for doubles and triples.

> "We'll see what happens. We haven't had a long stretch where it's been 80-plus degrees to see if the ball is going to carry. And any day, coming here is better than playing in the dome."

This is the first time in decades (literally, decades) that the Twins have been "built around" hitting the three run homer; for so long, the Twins haven't been a big walks-and-homers club, and had built their offense around stringing together a bunch of hits. The numbers say that model isn't sustainable, which is one reason modern stats guys haven't been high on the Twins of the last decade.

But the thing about relying on the big home run is that sometimes the home runs don't come. Other teams and fanbases have had to learn this over the years, but the Twins are just seeing it for the first time since the 80s. There's something to be said for "acting like you've been there before," but this year the Twins are in uncharted territory. This is an offense unlike any that Gardy has seen, unlike any that Mauer and Morneau and Cuddyer and Kubel have ever been a part of, and clearly, something isn't working.

Today, Marc Hulet of FanGraphs [took a look at a Twins prospect](http://www.fangraphs.com/blogs/index.php/revere-this-twins-prospect/) who has surprised many analysts who thought the Twins had made a big mistake by drafting him in the first round, back in 2007. Most teams had him in the third round -- that is, those teams who considered him a potential draft target in the first place, which wasn't many. It was considered a big reach by the Twins, and opened the front office to calls of "cheap!" -- any time a team drafts someone way ahead of where they'd otherwise go, it's seen as a "signability pick," designed to save money in draft bonuses.

But this prospect was Ben Revere, who has done nothing but impress since he entered the Twins' system. Here are his numbers for each year in the system:

- Age 19, Rookie ball: 50 G, .325/.388/.461, 21 SB, 6 2B, 10 3B, 0 HR
- Age 20, Low-A: 83 G, .379/.433/.497, 44 SB, 17 2B, 10 3B, 1 HR
- Age 21, High-A: 121 G, .311/.372/.369, 45 SB, 13 2B, 4 3B, 2 HR
- Age 22, AA: 42 G, .313/.387/.380, 17 SB, 6 2B, 1 3B, 1 HR

I'd say _some_ of the shine was washed off his star when he left Beloit and was promoted to Fort Myers; he played in 50% more games but had 50% fewer extra base hits. But everyone knows that Revere isn't going to hit for much power -- and to his credit, he hasn't tried to adjust to the lack of power-hitting results by overswinging. Perhaps the most impressive thing about Revere is that in his four years in the minors, he has 101 strikeouts and 97 walks.

Put it this way: Revere has Span-like plate discipline with Gomez-like speed.

> Although he’s never been promoted in-season by the Twins, this could be the year that the organization decides to change things up. Revere is close to being MLB-ready and is hitting .415/.489/.537 with six steals in his last 10 games. The organization lacks depth in the outfield at triple-A and if the MLB club needs an injury replacement for the second half of the season, Revere might be the type of player that can provide a playoff-seeking club a real boost.

I've been saying for a few weeks now that Span could really use a day off; this is precisely the tough situation the Twins should have known they'd find themselves in, with a roster full of high-power players on the unfortunate side of the defensive spectrum, and not a single player legitimately capable of calling himself a backup center fielder. Span may need a break, but Gardy can't give him one. You don't want to see Cuddyer patrolling CF, or Casilla, do you? Both have happened this year, and so far it hasn't bit the Twins. It's bound to, at some point.

But with Revere demonstrating plate discipline beyond his years and the slimmest-possible chance that he'll develop more power as he ages, maybe it's time to start pushing him through the system. Send him up to AAA soon, let him acclimate to that environment for a while (it didn't take him long to adjust to AA, or any of the other leagues he's been promoted to), and hope he's ready to join the big club in a backup role at some point later in the season.

If the Twins _still_ need a spark by then, they'll be set up for yet another dramatic late season surge to the playoffs. If not, at least it'll be nice to be able to rest the outfielders as the season winds down. If Revere can hold down a .360+ OBP in the 9th spot in the order, bunting people into scoring position or running himself into scoring position in front of the Span/Hudson/Mauer/Morneau gauntlet, it could be exactly what the Twins need. Additionally, it would give Gardy the flexibility not only to give Span a day off, but to move Span to either corner to give Cuddyer and Young days off of their own.

I haven't been all that high on Revere over the past few years, and have pondered whether the Twins might be best off trading him while he's still a promising prospect; but if other teams and analysts don't know anything about him,* his trade value probably isn't that high.

_* This gets back to the "hype factor" of trading prospects that I've mentioned a few times in the past: basically, teams that are successfully able to hype up their own prospects are able to get a lot more for them in a trade than teams that can't. Of course, the media is a HUGE part of the hype factor. This is why the Red Sox were able to trade Justin Masterson to the Indians for Victor Martinez; Martinez remains a star-caliber major league player, while Masterson has posted a 5.26 ERA and 1.725 WHIP since joining the Indians. Clearly not a fair deal in retrospect, but at the time of the trade, Masterson was a very highly regarded prospect. Presumably only because the Red Sox have mastered the art of pumping up the hype machine for their prospects._

But the Twins don't necessarily need to trade Revere to get what they need from him, even assuming he'll never turn into a star player. The Twins as currently constructed are a slow team with a whole bunch of guys likely to hit under .300 (but still be productive over the course of the season thanks to walks and extra base hits); if they have a _need_, it's for a speedy backup outfielder with a high batting average and the ability to steal bases and/or distract the pitcher.

Once they start thinking about actually filling that need, they may find that the solution is right under their noses.
