The stats vs scouts "debate" continues to rage on, with the "stats" side of the argument pushing the radical notion that a good front office should combine both statistical analysis and scouting into its decision making process, while the "scouts" side chomps on sunflower seeds and chewing tobacco while screeching that anyone who believes in any stat besides batting average doesn't know anything about real baseball.

Was that fair? Who cares?

As we all know too well by now, the Twins were one of the last holdouts in the "scouts only" camp, and have recently hired "a guy" to "look at" some statistics. At the time, I wondered if they'd listen to that guy, or if they just hired him as a salary-wasting figurehead, whose only purpose is to have a title that the franchise can wave in the noses of people who call them ignorant to new methods of understanding the game. That's still an important question, and I doubt it'll be answered until several more moves are made and we can get some information as to who was behind the moves. I'd say 6-24 months.

But I don't want to wait! What do we know _now_?

Well, the whole point of hiring a team of statistical analysts is to gain a competitive advantage against other teams. The A's found an advantage in the market for high-OBP/low-average players, who would help a team win but were undervalued by the marketplace at the time -- everyone knows that they found that market inefficiency by paying very close attention to their statistical analysis, which was the class of the league at the time. Since then, the rest of the league has caught on and high-OBP guys are no longer undervalued by the market -- and look at what it's done to Oakland's ability to compete. They still have not found a new market inefficiency, and I'm sure it's not for lack of trying.

Other teams, notably the Mariners and Red Sox, have tried to exploit what they saw as a newly formed market inefficiency: great defensive players. They're relying heavily on advanced defensive metrics, but those metrics are not yet advanced enough to be truly reliable; you can probably see that in the win-loss records of those teams. Someday, perhaps, there will be a good way to measure defense objectively, but that day has not arrived yet.

Meanwhile, the Twins continue to compete, and many around the league have wondered why ... especially teams in similar markets who find themselves stuck at the bottom of the standings but for the occasional burst of fate which brings them some wins. But the thing about fate is that she's a bitch.* Those other teams want to know: what's the deal with the Twins?

_* Or something. I don't know exactly how that saying goes._

In order to compete consistently without outspending your rivals, you basically _must_ find a market inefficiency that you can exploit for as long as possible; the A's lost their advantage only once other teams started using the same methods to seek out the same players. And because it's basically impossible to keep things a secret nowadays -- you are currently reading an example of why it's impossible for things to stay secret, even if you don't tell anybody the recipe for your magic sauce, someone will probably come up with it, or something close -- you have to choose between getting so good at finding new inefficiencies that you can exploit a new one every time the old one closes, and getting so good at exploiting a particular inefficiency that nobody else can do it even if they know what it is.

So, the question is: have the Twins found a market efficiency, how are they exploiting it, and which method of protecting their advantage have they chosen? [Jerry Crasnick recently wrote an article that may be able to shed some light](http://sports.espn.go.com/mlb/columns/story?columnist=crasnick_jerry&id=5195322) for us. Here's a hint: strike-throwers.

> It's not easy to project how an 18-year-old high school senior's control will look when he's 24, but Twins scouts focus on the traits that will give a prospect a head start. The pitcher who maintains the same arm slot, breaks his hands at the same place and drops his landing foot in the same spot after each throw has an edge over someone with an inconsistent delivery. Similarly, a pitcher with the self-assurance to pitch to contact and the demeanor to shrug off a bad-hop single or adjust to a tight strike zone is a better fit for the organizational approach. Makeup is just as important as mechanics or stuff.

> "We emphasize it at the acquisition level," [longtime scouting directory Mike] Radcliff said. "It stems from a manifesto we put together way back in the day: As a small-market club, how are you going to get an edge? We believe that command and control and makeup are true separators in the pitching category.

> "We put stock in it and believe that it matters. It's a part of our DNA now at every level -- from scouting through our player development to the big leagues."

The Twins believe in strike-throwing pitchers who boast a consistent delivery even at a young age, along with _makeup_, or the (mythical?) mental/emotional ability to rebound from failure and persevere through adversity.

At the same time, many other teams seem to value guys who can rack up big strikeout numbers, or guys who can light up radar guns, or maintain a low ERA, or generate ground balls, or who have electric raw stuff. What's the market value of a guy who doesn't strike many guys out, but also doesn't walk many batters, who pitches to contact and relies on his defense behind him? Not high. So the Twins seem to have found an inefficiency.

I think it's clear that those qualities can't come across in any statistic, nor even in radar gun readings or box scores ... perhaps not even on television. In order to find guys who meet this profile, you _must_ use scouts. Lots of them, all over the country, watching high school games and college games and semi-pro games and amateur league games, and minor league games -- all of these widely divergent leagues and ballparks and playing environments, where stats mean less and less and the eye of an experienced scout means more.

The Twins, as an organization, are exploiting this market inefficiency by relying heavily on scouts, at the same time that most front offices are pushing hard in the opposite direction, towards more and more statistical analysis. That seems to leave plenty of room for the Twins to continue exploiting these undervalued pitchers for some time to come.

And what if another team wants to horn in on the Twins' turf? Will they turn into the A's, struggling along as they fail to find a new well after the old one dried up? How are they protecting their competitive advantage?

Well, it goes back to how difficult it is to scout all these players, in all these games, in all these leagues, all over the United States and even the world (the Twins are pioneers both in Australia and Europe). It's difficult and expensive to send scouts to all those games, and many franchises will be loathe to commit that kind of money without some guarantee of positive returns; my guess is that's why so many were so slow to adopt statistical analysis in the first place.

And then, even if you're spending the money to send scouts all over the world to see these games, who's to say they know what to look for, or will find the diamonds in the rough anyway? The Twins have kept the same scouting staff in place for decades, with low churn and, without a doubt, plenty of handing down the wisdom of the elders through oral tradition.

The Twins are finding guys that other teams aren't even looking for. They're looking for guys in places that other teams aren't looking. And if other teams _were_ looking, the Twins have a substantial head start on accurately evaluating young players.

This, all at the same time that they're emerging from the economic depths of the small market teams, and signing checks with the big boys.

I wouldn't expect the Twins to suffer the same fate as the Athletics any time soon.
