Last night after the Twins suffered a barely-watchable sweep by the Red Sox, they sent Jeff Manship back down to AAA (that was a lengthy stint, wasn't it?), and called up Trevor Plouffe for the first time. So just who is Trevor Plouffe?

Here's [what Aaron Gleeman had to say about him during the offseason](http://www.aarongleeman.com/2010_01_31_baseballblog_archive.html#164050755549886509), when he ranked Plouffe as the Twins' 27th best prospect:

> Trevor Plouffe had been promoted very aggressively since the Twins took him out of high school in the first round of the 2004 draft, but pushing him through the system despite the lack of any major offensive development now leaves him as a 24-year-old about to spend a third straight season at Rochester. He has six seasons under his belt, including 1,553 plate appearances between Double-A and Triple-A, yet has never posted even a .750 OPS at any level and owns a .256/.318/.385 career line.

> His production has been remarkably consistent in its mediocrity, with zero real strides made in any key areas, and Plouffe's lack of progress at the plate is especially damaging because he's no sure thing to be an asset defensively at shortstop. His glove gets mixed reviews and while Plouffe played exclusively shortstop last year the Twins used him at third base extensively in 2008. If he's not at least an average defensive shortstop in the majors it's tough to see Plouffe having much value.

> Plouffe is certainly still young enough for something to click offensively, but as the Twins saw with Luis Rivas and could be seeing with Delmon Young at some point actual production takes precedence over youth. He's about to enter his seventh professional season and fourth straight year in the high minors, but aside from his age and status as a former first-round pick Plouffe has shown almost no reason for optimism. My guess is that by this time next year he'll either be in the majors or off the 40-man roster.

Despite being a former first round pick, Plouffe pretty clearly wasn't on the verge of breaking down the door to the major league roster when the season started. However, we've seen this story before: first round draft pick, doesn't hit much all the way through the minors, then something clicks during a brief period at AAA and that success immediately translates to the majors. (I call it "The Denard Story," but that's just a working title.) Of course, we've also seen the "first round draft pick never makes anything of himself and washes out of the league eventually" story play out plenty of times. It's not clear which track Plouffe is on.

Then JJ Hardy got injured, and it only took a couple of days for my Twitter feed to start exploding with excitement for Trevor Plouffe and myriad people calling for him to be called up. I've tried to go back and grab some of those tweets, but Twitter isn't letting me look more than 5 days into the past. Stupid internet.

It's worth pointing out that Matt Tolbert's career minor league line is .277/.336/.400, considerably better than Plouffe's. Why are people getting so excited about a guy who hit even worse than Tolbert in the minors? Sure, this year he hit .303/.367/.493 at AAA, but that's only 38 games! Are we really getting excited about 38 games now?

Plouffe _might_ have a future with the Twins, and he might not. Maybe Gleeman was right, and the Twins had decided that if Plouffe doesn't show something that this is his final year in the organization; if that's the case, it certainly makes sense that they'd see what he's got, especially while he's hot. He did, after all, get a hit off Strasburg.

He's played the lion's share of his time at SS, but _has_ played at both 2B and 3B. If it starts looking like Plouffe's bat is real, maybe he'll replace Tolbert for the rest of this season, and maybe even Punto in 2011. I haven't heard great reports about his defense at short, so maybe he won't stick there; maybe he'll replace Hudson in 2011. Maybe he'll be gone.

Normally I'm excited to see the next product of the Twins' talent pipeline. And for years, Plouffe was supposed to be "the shortstop of the future!" But from where I'm sitting, his star is shining quite a bit less brightly than it once did, and I don't find myself all that thrilled. Maybe it's because even with Plouffe's callup, the roster still has Harris, Punto, Tolbert, and Casilla, who will presumably all get playing time ahead of Plouffe. So Trevor: I hope you like sitting on the bench for 3 games while the guy playing instead of you goes 0-4 every day until you get sent back down. Because I'm guessing that's Gardy's plan.

Then again, maybe this is just part of Plouffe's story. Span was "the center fielder of the future!" for years, while he sucked at every level of the minors, and by the time he got to the top of the farm system he looked like a washout and I was calling him "Denard F'ing Span," as if he had no chance to become a viable major leaguer. You never know.

So hopefully his .860 OPS isn't a fluke and he gets some playing time and the Twins can reap some more fruit from the pipeline. But I wouldn't get your hopes up.
