Yesterday, Danny Valencia homered off Johan Santana, and was rewarded by being cut from major league camp -- it seemed pretty abrupt to me. But [thanks to Joe C, we have an explanation](http://www.startribune.com/sports/twins/blogs/88723132.html):

> Players on the 40-man roster who did not finish the previous year in the majors need to be optioned before today (16 days before Opening Day), or, in the event of an injury, they must be kept on the major league DL.

> Since Valencia was expected to contend for the starting third base job, his cut seemed particularly abrupt.

I don't know if I'd use the word "expected" here. A better choice, I think, would be "hoped." I believe Valencia is _almost_ ready for a promotion to the majors, and a half-season or so in AAA to make some adjustments to his approach at the plate would definitely do him good.

Even more than that, though, is the fact that Gardy is still the manager around here, and there's nothing he hates more than:

1. Young, talented players
2. Anything that might cut into Nick Punto's playing time

That's why I was so interested to read even the most cursory scouting report from Gardy, about Valencia.

> Asked what impression Valencia made this spring, Gardenhire said, "He was fine. He moved around just fine. A good arm. He’s still got to learn where to play guys defensively and all those things. His bat seems good, there’s things he’s going to have work on, hitting the breaking ball and all those things. We saw teams that knew him down here they were spinning a lot of balls. ... But I guarantee you one thing: He can hit a fastball, and if he sits on a breaking ball, he can hit that, too. ... We’re going to go away here with our infield, and if anybody has any issues, he’ll get a chance."

Of course, no mention of the thing Valencia _actually_ needs to work on: plate discipline. I've talked about this before, but throughout the minors Valencia has struggled to draw walks in his first half-season or so at each level, but then adapts and his OBP jumps up, leading to a promotion and the cycle starts over. Also, it's _probably_ more important that he learn to a) avoid swinging at breaking balls, and b) foul them off when there are two strikes, but that's not Gardy's game.

In fact, there's little surprise Gardy didn't talk about Valencia's strike zone control or plate discipline. There's just about no evidence that he's aware that either of those things exist.

So there's nothing wrong with Valencia being sent down, and the Twins essentially waited until the deadline to do it. And he's just a heartbeat away from a promotion.
