With one lightning-quick swing of the bat, Jason Kubel erased much of my frustrations from the past several days; with the Twins clinging to a two run lead that was seeming more and more assailable with each passing minute, Kubel launched a glorious drive deep to right center field, where it eventually disappeared into the twilight.

I'd hoped, at the time, that it had left the stadium altogether. I've been waiting for that to happen, and I figure there are three guys most likely to do it, in this order:

1. Morneau
2. Thome
3. Kubel

And for one fleeting moment, I thought Kubel had done it. I still don't know exactly what happened to the ball, but from the way the replays show fans scrambling around back there it sure seemed like the ball had stayed in the park. Oh, well.

To answer all the griping by Twins players that they can't hit a home run at Target Field, Kubel showed how to do it: just keep on hitting the ball harder until it goes out. He showed us again that his method works, by blasting a three-run homer later in the game to ice it, to let us all relax a little bit and enjoy the end of a game in which the Twins dominated the Yankees.

Throughout the game, but especially early on, the Twins' luck was steadfastly doing everything it could not to change for the better. Of the first six outs the Twins made, four of them were made on rocket line drives right at a guy; still, the Twins were up 3-0.

I'd been trying hard, very hard, not to overreact to the Twins' bad luck on balls in play over the weeks. Eventually, I assumed, the luck would turn and the Twins would finally start seeing some hits fall in and some balls go over the fence. But I cracked, and the frustration became too much to bear. That's what happens, I suppose, when so many consecutive opportunities come up short. I'd begun to wonder if the Twins needed to change their approach, if they needed to get back to the style of offense that had worked for them in years past: get-em-on, get-em-over, get-em-in. Sure, the Twins are built for the long ball, are built for the big inning, are a team full of prodigious sluggers; but, I thought, _it's not working_. It's time for a change.

The players, though, did not see it that way; for that I'm glad. Rather than change who they are or how they're supposed to play, the way they set about to overcome this unlucky BABIP streak was to just keep hitting the ball. It went into someone's glove? Fuck it, hit the next one even harder. Javier Vazquez was basically just throwing batting practice to the Twins' hitters; one line drive after another had a vapor trail, pieces of horsehide and bits of stitching were flying off the ball, again and again, as the Twins ripped them all over the field.

Sure, some still found a glove. Many did. But the line drives kept coming, and finally they were finding the gaps, they were bouncing off the wall, and they were flying far over the fence. It's a great feeling.

Nick Nelson is a Twins blogger who does a much better job than I do of staying calm and balanced, and tends not to overreact to the daily slings and arrows. Yesterday, [he posted an article](http://www.nickstwinsblog.com/2010/05/karma-is-brat.html) in which he set up the 2008 Twins' unnatural successes with RISP and compared them to the 2010 Twins' mirror performance, bringing it home thusly:

> So is this team, which includes many of the same players as that 2008 group, simply less clutch? No. It's not like batters are stepping up and completely abandoning their approach at the plate in key situations -- they're striking out and walking with about the same frequency as would be expected. It's what happens when the ball is put in play that is killing them; the 2010 Twins' overall batting average on balls in play (BABIP) is .305, but with runners on second and third that drops to .190. With the bases loaded, it drops to .175.

> Compare that to the 2008 squad which saw its overall .316 BABIP shoot up to .332 with runners in scoring position. Their BABIP with runners on second and third was .351; with the bases loaded, .324. In '08, batted balls would consistently find a place to land in big spots. This year, in key run-scoring opportunities, line drives are continually falling into outfielders' gloves and hard-hit grounders are turning into double plays rather than seeing-eye singles.

If you recall, at the time we were all trying to figure out if the Twins actually _were_ better at hitting in the clutch than most other teams; after all, Gardy loves to practice situational hitting, and emphasizes getting the run in. Maybe it actually works? We were defending the Twins against the more impartial analysts who insisted that those BABIP numbers were simply too high to continue. Well, the Twins' good luck on balls in play lasted all season -- it did eventually regress back to normal, but it took a _long_ time. The same thing very well could happen again.

But today is not a day to worry about the BABIP Bogeyman coming to get us. Today is a day to bask in all those line drives, and in those two long home runs. To feel good about a dominant 8-2 victory over the Yankees. To find out if we really _do_ feel good about going 2-4 against the Yankees this year, a vast improvement over previous seasons. To chuckle at Yankees fans who are ready to meet Javier Vazquez at the airport with torches and pitchforks.

Yesterday, I offered up a solution to the Twins woes -- rush a prospect through the system in hopes of sparking the offense and giving the outfielders some much-needed rest. It wasn't exactly my proudest moment.

Then, last night, the Twins offered up a solution of their own -- just keep smashing the ball, harder and harder, until the runs _finally_ come.

Their solution is much more satisfying. Now here's hoping they keep it up through the weekend.
