
Driving home from a party; too drunk to drive, so he lets his wife drive the car while he rides in the passenger seat. It's nighttime, and the roads are wet from rain. Car skids out of control into an intersection* and he sees it coming seconds early. He leaps from the car.

* Like the one at 55th and Ellis, where there's a stop sign 15 feet from a stop light.

There's a big collision. Car is destroyed, his wife dies in his arms as he tries in vain to pull her from the car.

The police and firemen and ambulances show up quickly, and he answers their questions in a daze as they clean up the scene.

They give him a ride home and he stumbles inside, passes out on the couch. Wakes up in the late morning, is reminded of his wife by everything in the house. At first he thinks the crash was a dream. Losing it a little bit.

Local news gets on the story, pushing him for interviews. While they're trying to characterize him as a hero for trying to save his wife, he says he should have been driving the car; then maybe she would have been to survive.

Loneliness at home leads to a descent into depression, drinking, drugs.

National news picks him up, and it goes for a single news cycle. Similar to local, but the angle is darker. When a feature magazine article comes out about it, a media firestorm starts, accusing him of profiting from his wife's tragic death.

He loses his job; his friends and family grow tired of him and he loses contact. He loses his house.

He remains unable to come to grips with the fact that he survived the crash. He can't think of anything he could have done differently, other than sit tight and be killed too. He imagines it constantly when he's awake; he dreams about it even more vividly when he's asleep. Often he wakes up in a sweat from one of these nightmares ... he doesn't tell anyone that when that happens he just does more drugs until he passes out in a dreamless haze.

Soon, before he realizes it, everyone has forgotten him. The stares that were at first sympathetic, then suspicious, then hateful have now disappeared. People pass him on the street as if he's nobody.

He realizes that they're right. That he is nobody. That his tragic ordeal has ruined his life, and ended any chance that he could live his life. And that once the voracious public had had their fill, he was discarded.

It could have been anyone. It was him. It is everyone.

