
Cop 1: (_Sitting at a desk, working on something_)

Cop 2: (_Enter the room, excitedly_) Hey, do you remember that old game show from the 80s where people kept dying?

Cop 1: (_Looks up_) What?

Cop 2: It was weird. A lot of people watching it, it was some kind of cult phenomenon. You had to answer questions, and you couldn't move. It got cancelled during the first season because of all the unexplained deaths.

Cop 1: Sounds like a good reason to cancel a show.

Cop 2: Well, it's back on the air.

Cop 2: (_Pulls up a website on the computer. He presses play on the latest episode_)

Turns out someone has rebuilt the set and is making new episodes; they're being broadcast online. Someone's locked into a chair, but they can't see what's holding them down. The person answers a few questions, asked by a godlike voice from an invisible owner. After the final question, their body seizes up and they go limp; they appear dead. The film cuts to the game's logo. The voice says they won the ultimate $10000 prize! Tune in next week! Then the video ends.

Cut back to the detectives.

The detectives look at each other. Yeah, they have to find this guy and figure out what's going on. And stop it.

Cop 1: We have to stop this.

Cop 2: (_Nods_)

They go out to their car, and bump into another detective on the way.

Cop 2: Out of the way, Rookie!

Rookie: (_Friendly_) Hey, where are you guys off to?

Cop 1: Official business. Don't worry about it.

Rookie: Should I come too?

Cop 2: Buzz off, kid. We don't need you around.

They get in the car and go. After what appears to be a long drive, they arrive at a rundown warehouse. They go inside and see the set in the middle of the warehouse, surrounded by a bunch of strange-looking machines and a few video cameras.

They split up to search. Shortly after they lose sight of each other, the lights go off and the exit door slams shut. The lights on the set go bright, shining in many colors. Cop 1 appears transfixed, and walks toward the set. Cop 2 sees him just as he gets to the chair ... he shouts to stop, but Cop 1 can't hear him. He sits down, and suddenly is locked to the chair.

The voice asks a question. Cop 1 doesn't answer ... and the voice explains that you _must_ answer, or you will never get out alive. Cop 1 answers the question. And another. Cop 2 moves closer, by the machines. He sees a control panel and is about to shoot it when his body freezes; he can't move at all. The gun falls down and clatters around on the ground.

Voice: I see your friend here doesn't want you to play the game. He must be jealous that you're going to win all this money and he isn't. That's okay ... he can just watch.

He asks another question, and Cop 1 gets it wrong. His body seizes up, he looks like he's in pain.

Voice: (_Menacingly_) Don't get another one wrong...

Another question. Cop 1 answers correctly. The voice plays to his online video audience, setting up the finale.

Cop 2 is struggling to move. As the voice doesn't pay attention to him, he's able to barely move his arms. He manages to reach the control panel and press a couple buttons; the lights on the set go wild, and pain wracks his body. He falls to the ground.

Voice: How __dare__ you mess with my machines? You will pay for this, you insolent fool!

Suddenly lights go on outside, and they're shining in the windows. The inside of the warehouse is mostly illuminated. 

Megaphone: We know you're in there. Just release the hostages!

Voice: Leave! You're interrupting my show! I'll kill them!

A loud bang; the lights all get really bright, then it goes dark. The door is slammed down, and people rush in. 

Some cop: Where is he?

Someone unplugs the machines, and Cop 1 & Cop 2 can move again. 

Another cop: (_Shouting from a distance_) He's gone. No sign of him.

Rookie: (_Walking up, calmly_) He probably was never even here.

Cop 2: What are _you_ doing here?

Rookie: I read your file. You guys always need backup.

Cop 2: (_Stuttering, enraged_)
Cop 1: (_Laughing_) Yeah, pretty much.

Rookie: You guys are lucky I got here when I did. According to how those shows apparently work, you were going to die after the next question.

Cop 1: How could he be doing this if he isn't even here?

Rookie: The machines were doing everything. Some sort of electromagnetic ray that can incapacitate your brainwaves. Somehow, I guess. I don't get it. But he can control that remotely.

Cop 2: Well are you tracking it?!

Rookie: Heh. We tried that, of course. Couldn't find his location.

Cop 2 shoves his gun in his holster and storms off, muttering angrily about the rookie blowing his case. Cop 1 runs off to chase him.

Zoom in on the rookie's face.

Rookie: (_With the same voice as the Voice_) At least you lived.
