Narrator: I walked into her house.

Turns a doorknob and walks inside. Looks around the living room. It's decorated somewhat nicely; there are pictures and such on tables and on the mantle. Sunlight calmly lights the room through the windows.

Narrator: It was a beautiful place, then. Just being there made me happy. It always made me happy.

Walks over to an end table. Reaches down and picks up a photograph.

Narrator: Oh, the memories.

He looks at the picture. It's a picture of a young woman in a field, smiling from ear to ear.

Cut to the field. Snapping a picture of the girl, who proceeds to frolic, care-free, among the flowers. The narrator is holding the camera, and playfully chases her. They're laughing and smiling. The sun is shining brightly. Light, happy music.

Narrator: That was a good day. I can still remember the smell of those flowers. Things were better then. Simpler.

Wanders around the living room. Sees flowers in a vase. Stares at them longingly for a moment. Picks up another picture, from the mantle. It's a picture of the same young woman, reading a book on a park bench.

Cut to the park. She's reading a book, intently. She pushes the hair behind her ear. The narrator sits next to her on the bench and puts his arm around her. He has a contented look on his face. She lowers her head to rest it on his shoulder.

Back to the living room. He sets that picture down and sighs. Wandering around the room some more, he sees an album sitting on the coffee table. He sits down and opens it. Flipping through the pages, he comes across a picture of the woman at a party, surrounded by her friends. They're all smiling, having a great time. In the background of the picture is the narrator, staring at the woman's back longingly, sadly.

Narrator: I don't remember this...

Cut to the party. She's talking to her friends; the person with the camera shouts over the music: "Okay everyone! Smile!" Everyone smiles, and the flash goes off. The narrator hasn't stopped staring at the girl. She turns and kisses some guy, acting towards him like they've been dating for a while. The narrator looks absolutely crestfallen. He takes a shot and stumbles out of the party, out into a hallway. He's not walking in a straight line. Fade to black.

Cut back to the woman's house. He's staring at the picture.

Narrator: Is that ... is that real? What is happening?

The door opens behind him.

Young woman: (_Frightened_) Oh!

The narrator turns around, startled.

Young woman: Who are you? What are you doing in my house?

Narrator: What do you ... I'm Josh! We've been--

Young woman: Josh? From high school? Why are you here?

Narrator: I don't understand. Don't you remember? We've been together for--

Young woman: We've _never_ been together. Get out of my house!

Narrator: But I remember... all these memories...

The woman looks around at the pictures he's been looking at.

Young woman: Josh, these are all my memories. Not yours.

...
